### [VS-2018-015]  NordVPN for MacOS Root Privilege Escalation Vulnerability	
  		  
#### CVE ID		
CVE-2018-9105

#### CVSS Score		
Pending
		
#### Vendor		
NordVPN 		
		
#### Product		
NordVPN for MacOS

#### Product Version
3.3.10
		
#### Vulnerability Details
		
NordVPN for MacOS suffers from a root privilege escalation vulnerability.  The vulnerability stems from its privileged helper tool's implemented XPC service.  This XPC service is responsible for receiving and processing new **openvpn** connection requests from the main application.  Unfortunately this XPC service is not protected, which allows arbitrary applications to connect and send it potentially malicious XPC messages.  An attacker can send a crafted XPC message to the privileged helper tool requesting it to make a new **openvpn** connection.  Because he or she controls the contents of the XPC message, the attacker can specify the location of the **openvpn** executable, which could point to something malicious they control located on disk.  Without validation of **openvpn** executable, this will give the attacker code execution in the context of the privileged helper tool, which is running as root.	
 		
#### Vendor Response		
NordVPN has released an update. 
  		
#### Disclosure Timeline		
 		
* **03-09-2018** - Vendor disclosure via email		
* **03-09-2018** - Vendor notified via Facebook		
* **03-09-2018** - Vendor response via email		
* **03-10-2018** - Vendor response: Sent to the development team	
* **03-14-2018** - Vendor notified of disclosure schedule		
* **03-19-2018** - Vendor response: Vulnerability resolved, update pending
* **03-19-2018** - VerSprite Security extends advisory release timeline
* **03-27-2018** - Vendor notified of the advisory release	
 		
#### Credit		
Benjamin Watson of VerSprite Security
([@rotlogix](https://twitter.com/rotlogix))
